This file is an attempt to describe and explain the characteristics of
different immortality levels. I will be using the phrases IRPT and ICT,
which stand for "In Role-Playing Terms" and "In Coding Terms" respectively.

LESSER DEITY
============

    IRPT:
	-----
    Lesser deities are the weakest immortals in the Pantheon. They do not 
	possess much supernatural powers (compared with other immorta|s), but they
	do have their place among the gods. Lesser deities almost always run 
	errands for higher immortals. The nature of these errands usually is 
	involved with mortal affairs, as lesser deities are given very little 
	information on affairs of the Pantheon for the simple reason that their
	powers are too limited to benefit anyone and because their lack of
    experience with immortal affairs might result in foolish decisions and 
	solutions. Lesser deities do not have a strong alignment yet (or at least
	they are not supposed to), instead they are expected to work for any
	higher immortal who commands them to do so. All in all, lesser deities are
	like children: they are constantly manipulated, guided and controlled and 
	their heads are filled with loads of trivial information.

    ICT:
	----
	Lesser deities only have access to their own home directory and naturally
	the open-directory. In this stage immortals should learn the LPC language 
	and learn how to use the lib. They shouldn't commit anything to the actual
	world of Majik. They should make themselves familiar with all documents
	and socialize with other immortals. They should also learn everything 
	about the mortal world they can.

DEITY
=====

    IRPT:
	-----
    When a lesser deity has enough experience, skill, understanding and 
	humility, he/she/it is appointed the title "deity". Deities are like
    enhanced versions of lesser deities; they too are controlled by higher
    immortals but only to a certain extent. Deities have a right to do their
    own decisions on certain affairs and they are usually appointed a small
    sphere of control over a certain area of their liking to accomplish this. 
	However, their decisions still don't have any meaning for the Pantheon, 
	instead it is simply good practice. Also, in this stage an immortal must
    choose his/her/its alignment and rise in the favor of a higher immortal of
	that alignment.
	
	ICT:
	----
	Deities should already know the basics of LPC, know all the documentation
	made available to them by heart, know every city and area on the map and 
	be able to call Yorkaturr "Dorka" without getting removed. What they 
	should spend their time with is plan some minor stuff with other immortals
	or do some minor tasks such as removing typos or writing descs in case 
	higher immortals don't feel like it. 
	
GREATER DEITY
=============

    IRPT:
	-----
    Greater deities are deities who have risen in the favor of a certain
    higher immortal (usually a god) by proving their worth. Greater deities 
	only work for their own master (and naturally anyone above their own 
	master), and are expected to have the same alignment as their master. This
	is the stage in which immortals should also establish a personality and 
	overall "look".
	
	ICT:
	----
	Greater deities should have the know-how and experience for making areas
	that fit the mortal world and also should do so as well. However, they
	should always converse with higher immortals about their ideas and ask a
	lot of questions. They should also participate in collective thinking on
	the deity-channel and propose their own ideas without making fools of 
	themselves. Could also help lower immortals learn how to code.
	
LESSER GOD
==========

	IRPT:
	-----
    Lesser gods are the lowest gods. They are true members of the Pantheon and
	they always have a certain sphere of control as well as a strong
    personality and alignment. They do not run mortal affairs anymore (not
    directly that is), in fact they are secluded from mortal life more than 
	higher gods just so that they would get used to handling the issues of the
	Pantheon. This also gives them a chance to screw things up in the 
	Pantheon, which is why lesser gods are kept an eye on very closely by gods
	and greater gods. Lesser gods also have a right to command lesser deities 
	and deities. Lesser gods themselves naturally must comply if a higher god 
	wishes them to do so, however a higher god should always have a good 
	reason for commanding lesser gods instead of deities, other than boosting 
	their already demonic egos (not that there would be a punishment for not 
	following this rule). Lesser gods are also the lowest immortals who have a
	right to found a church of their own, which more than compensates for 
	their lack of direct intervention with mortals.
	
	ICT:
	----
	Lesser gods should be able to code technically advanced areas and fiddle
	with their own guilds and their own church. Must use expressions such as 
	"suffeli", "muijja" and "luuska" on a regular basis. Must not never ever
	use scands. Preferably has gained his/her title in a con from a poor 
	drunken (greater) god. Should have earned the trust of ALL higher 
	immortals. Should guide lower immortals in various things.

GOD
===

	IRPT:
	-----
    The step from a lesser god into a full-fledged god is a great one. Gods
	are omnipotent, capable of doing anything they can come up with (except
    control or harm greater gods) and they are the ones who run things in the 
	Pantheon. Gods have an extremely strong personality and alignment (which
    naturally limits their numbers greatly - there can't be two similar gods).
	In the mortal world they typically have a strong church organization lead 
	with powerful mortals behind them. Their spheres of control are 
	concentrated on powerful forces such as light, darkness, death and life. 
	They are indeed the very definition of divinity.
	
	ICT:
	----
	Gods have access to the Majik CVS so they should fix stuff in the lib and
	client and add features to them. They should also have met the majority of
	all other gods IRL at least once. Basicly gods can and will do anything 
	conceivable so they have a say in all things concerning Majik. Should be 
	able to argue with every other immortal effectively and know other gods 
	and greater gods well enough to accomplish this. 
	
GREATER GOD
===========

	IRPT:
	-----
    There are only 3 greater gods: Namhas, Dazzt and Sinister. Basically
	these names are equivalent with neutrality, goodness and evil 
	(respectively). They are the ultimate powers and their abilities are 
	uncomprehensible to mortals. They can do _anything_. They can destroy the 
	known world with a simple thought or create another just as easily. The 
	only thing which keeps them from doing so is their sacred trinity: their
	conflicting and equally powerful forces combined form a strong neutral 
	atmosphere. The reason behind this trinity is unknown, but it is more than
	probably just a manifestation of their selfishness (if you can't destroy
	them, join them).
	
	ICT:
	----
	Essentially the same as gods, but are above gods in the sense that they
	can remove gods.

-- Yorkaturr, The Grim Reaper
